This \cite{2} describes the commercialization of wearable sensors and their application by Gait Analysis for rehabilitation and diagnosis of various sports and medical-related conditions. It also highlights the sensitivity of sensors like accelerometer and how these sensors are better than the earlier techniques of using camera systems; which were used in earlier times and was available in specialized labs only. Therefore, it is comprehensible that the use of portable smartphone sensors is one of the best options for gait analysis. This \cite{3} work aims at calculating the length of one step that a candidate takes using a handheld device called MEMS (Micro Electrical Mechanical System). It combines user’s step frequency (calculated by putting STFT (Short Time Fourier Transform) over the signal extracted from the handheld device) with his/her height with some other parameters for calculating the step length. An error of 2.5-5% of the traveled distance was recorded, which is very similar to those of models proposed in fixed sensors literature only. 
  The \cite{4} paper talks about the detection of Freezing of Gait (FoG) in advanced Parkinson’s disease using gait analysis. It proposes a compact wearable device composed of a smartphone and accelerometer sensors for effective online detection of FoG. They have tested the collected data by using Random Forest, C4.5, Naïve Bayes, Multilayer Perceptron, for boosting and bagging methods. The window lengths were 1s and 4s. The 4s window results were comparable to state-of-the-art FoG detection systems for 4s window, with a maximum accuracy of 99.98%. The paper found Random Forests to be appropriate for the smartphones because of their quick ability to learn complex problems which offer better detection performance. Now, similarly, Random forest has the best performance on the flood detection problem. 
This \cite{1} paper looks to find the accuracy and reliability between the measurements of the tri-axial accelerometer in the smartphone & another external tri accelerometer, fixed through the L3 spinous process (model WAA-006, 17 g, 38 · 39 · 10 mm, ATR-Promotions Co., Japan). Through an application that they built on their own. Now, they fixed both the external tri-axial accelerometer and the smartphone and taped it to the L3 region of the spine. They processed the signals from both and calculated: peak frequency (PF), root mean square (RMS), autocorrelation peak (AC), and coefficient of variance (CV) for both the sensors. In all gait parameters calculated (p < 0.001) measurements of the smartphone sensor signal and the accelerometer signal showed excellent consistency.
All parameters of smartphone signals showed statistically significant and useful correlations with those of the tri-axial accelerometer. 